---
title: 'I See The Finish Line'
date: 2025-12-07
permalink: /posts/2025/07/blog-post-12/
tags:
  - case study
  - copyright
  - ethics
---


Task 1
---
## 1.
Superlative is a big word. Too big for my head. Imma use a different word that works with my hip Gen-Z-ness: "most vibey". So the blog post that was most vibey is this one--the last blog post. Why? Well, I tend to prefer creative writing over structureded writing, and this one, I don't have to read or listen to anything before writing, and 'educating' readers on my perspective. I have the freedom of a bald eagle perched on a high tree, drinking vodka. (I've only had vodka once, but I don't drink as far as you know.) With the lowkey vibey hipness of this article, it easily tops the cake with being the most vibey. 

## 2.
As for the second-most vibey post, I really "enjoyed" blog post 6, where I talked about the addictive behaviour of AI companions. While I can't say I enjoyed writing the post, I really did enjoy listening--that's right, listening--to the article about it. (I must prefer to listen to articles than read them--it works better with my brain). As for how reflecting on this helps me notice changes in my writing and/or thinking, it doesn't. It reminds me of the article and the issues with AI influencing harm in youth and other demographics. I am sad to say, there was no epiphanies in writing this paragraph. If anything, I'm slightly worried about my grade for this post due to my dry humor.


## 3.
I significantly changed my 2nd blog post. I had originally left out several points, failing to make the connections between my arguments, "perspectives," and the article. I made remarks that ended up being assumptions with too much ambiguity. So I fixed up those remarks, added in some polish, and now it's flawless. By 'flawless' I mean, it will make my mom smile, not necessarily a writing tutor. I wish I could say I improved my writing skills at all, but I don't feel like I've learned a whole lot--similar to any required CS course after Data Structures. 

Task 2
---
## 1.
In lieu with the last paragraph, this course did about null for my writing skills. Granted, I can blame myself for not putting in the compositional effort. Aspects I struggled with were the following in no particular order: time, apathy in writing, attention span in long articles (why I like listening to ones), apathy in analysis.

## 2.
Yes, mostly because I can more easily work with google docs than codespace. As for the difference between an online audience and a typical academic assignment, I am indifferent. What does one be by 'online audience'? All my typical homework is being graded online. The in-person reviews could very easily become the online audience. A typical paper, perhaps, has a typical outline with intro, body paragraphs, counterarguments, and conclusion. A blog post using Codespace has been a mess in the sense that I don't know how my paper will format, and I don't mind just guessing until I see it later. 

## 3.
The only real habit I kept with this, aside from forgetting about them once I turn them in, is leaving a quote at the end of the posts. I like quotes, and we should be happy people can share their biggest lessons in life in under three lines of text.


Task 3
---
## 1. 
I enjoyed writing about artificial intelligence the most, as it was the subject that I have the most opinions about. I am very for AI when it comes to teaching myself concepts in a new perspective that, say a math book failed to do. But I am highly against ai in making music (even though it's really cool), art, deep fakes, essays, code, apps, et cetera. It's overall harmful, and I genuinely do believe there will be a point where AI becomes too powerful for some sadistic bloke can create a new virus that wipes out numbers. I wish we had covered what software engineering will look like in the next ten year (tough to do, but like AI can code now). I didn't care for the activities a whole lot, as I had to talk to other people on analysis, but it's good for me.

## 2.
Did writing blogs deepen my understanding of the course concepts? Short answer: yes, but only shallowly. I can't identify a single thing that clicked (other than how to navigate Codespace) when writing these posts.

Task 4
---
## 1.
I don't see myself doing anything with this 'website' for anything after this course. I do want to create websites in the future, but not necessarily in the near future. I do not plan on ever having a blog, as I hardly enjoy reading blogs. I do, however, plan on having a podcast. I have wanted to do one for many years, so I was super excited to have done the podcasts for the course. I actually started a podcast with a friend of my about analyzing books, but with that I learned something--I hate anlayzing. So now my vision for a podcast is to do research-based things and answering questions. A humor podcast, because life without humor is just sad.

## 2.
You know, it's ironic, I hate writing papers so much. I considered majoring in writing--creative writing. I learned I only really enjoy creative writing, so if I were to become any sort of writer, it would be for fictional tales or something where I can just write freely and not care about what others think of my grammar and writing style. And I know that breaking grammar rules is risky, like starting a sentence with 'and', but really, I don't care--I know how to use it wisely if I were to really try.

## 3.
Writing goals for me. It might come as a shock, but I have a genuine writing goal. I want to write more short stories, so I have a goal to write another short story to share with my friends and family. Nothing bloggy, everything romance (That last part was a joke...sorta). The thing that will get me to my goal has nothing to do about the goal, and everything to do about the system (James Clear reference). So I need to implement habit stacking and/or other techniques like the two-minute rule, or changing the environment (Atomic Habits is a wonderful gem if you let it be). Then again, with all of this said, writing isn't my priority--getting a job is. But one day it will be, just not today.
