---
title: 'Stop Being So Dramatic'
date: 2025-12-09
permalink: /posts/2025/07/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - case study
  - copyright
  - ethics
  - crtique
---

Summary
---
This blog post covers my critical standpoint based on a 2024 article "Future-Proofing Education: AI Will Redefine Learning And Teaching," as well as the bold claims made in the article. You can find the article [here](https://www.forbes.com/sites/hessiejones/2024/07/22/future-proofing-education-ai-will-redefine-learning-and-teaching/).

The Claim
---
Put simply in the words of the author, Hessie Jones, the claim here is "[W]ith teachers often overwhelmed and underpaid, [t]his results in students graduating without the neccessary skills to thrive in the modern workforce." To recap the quote, the claim in the article is because of AI, students are unprepared to thrive in the the modern workforce. 

Why such a Claim?
---
One point brought up to support her claim was that "Teachers are faces with an imposible task: they must educate students according to their job descriptions and the requirements set by the education system ... [including] ensuring that students pass standardized tests, which are often undrealted to real-world skills" The problem with this claim, is that AI has literally nothing to do with the standardized testing not reflecting the real world unless the article means the modern workforce with AI.

A second point made is that the education system struggles to keep up with technological advancements. This one, I can beleive. Many classroom set-ups in schools are the exact same now in 2025 as they were in the early 1900s. (What progress...)

A third point made is that "Teachs will transition from content creators to faciitators, guiding students through personalized learning experiences curated by AI. But the is a bold assumption. What about art teachers? What about the teachers deciding activities for their students. Should they just pop in a prompt?

Their Conclusion
---
The conclusion here is simply the title of the article,"Future-Proofing Education: AI Will Redefine Learning And Teaching." The statement is due to the claim that students will not be prepared to live in the real workforce. The conclusion states that in order to save the students from their empending skill-issues, is to "empower parents and families to utilize AI's potential [rather than let is suck the light out of all hope and purpose."] Okay, I made up the second half of that last sentence, but it's implied.


The Problem with the Claim
---
The claim is downright a fallacy. More specifically, the claim that students are underprepared for the modern workforce because of AI and overwhelemed teachers is a hasty generalization. Isn't the modern workforce now involve a lot more technology than ten years ago? I heard from a different article, that those who don't learn how to use AI will be behind the rest in some fields. There is no studies or statistical facts to back up the claim anywhere in the article. Without anything to back up, it becomes a fallacy. Something I should note, the only photo in the article I am critiquing is AI-generated.


