---
title: 'Vaccines are Tiny Bots Injected to Control You'
date: 2025-10-07
permalink: /posts/2025/11/blog-post-9/
tags:
  - case study
  - misinformation
  - ethics
---

Summary
---
This article talks about misinformation and the methods for censorship of this misinformation. You can find a link to it [here](https://mit-serc.pubpub.org/pub/lkf63cu5/release/1)

So What's Going On? 
---
"I cannot believe that actually happened!?" - Me. This was me a few days ago on Instagram watching a video of stolen box bursting into blue paint marking the theif. Unbeknownst to me, it was AI generated--I found out a little while later. (I have never used unbeknownst in a sentence before, so yay me.) It got me wondering, along with this article, how much misinformation like deep fakes, have slipped under my radar, and why haven't they been censored (removed) from my feeds? 

The author of the article claims that censorship is the wrong solution to misimformation, saying "Censorship cannot be the solution here...it offends against reasonable democratic civility and is often unlikely to work anyway." His solution is to rebuild a culture of mutual trust and reliable insitutions rather than relying on censorship.

Discussion Questions
---

#### This case study discusses several examples in which misinformation appears to be worse now than it was in the past (e.g., vaccine skepticism and election conspiracies). Can you think of any other examples?

This article seems to ignore a huge and uprising new wave of misinformation--AI. With deepfakes to the point where they look as real as the truth to the unscrutinized, it has lead to real problems. Often I hear about deepfakes made about current events like a plane crash or, more notably, war and natural cotastrophese. (I have no idea how to spell catastrophies). Why do people feel the need to do this? Is it for clout, malice, or just because? All I know is that nobody likes a hoaxer.

#### What strategies can you employ to avoid falling for misinformation online?

The best thing to do here is to just say offline. A lot of people get their misinformation on the social media sites like Snap, Twitter, Reddit, Instagram, Facebook, et cetera. Those sites are a free-for-all in what people post and anyone can post. Another solution for finding reputable information is to be on a reputable websites. Look at who is posting the article. For example, if you are looking for vaccination facts and you have the option to click on either a cdc.gov link or a 15facts.com link, obviously one is more reputable--I need not say more.


#### If censorship were likely to be an effective tool in combatting misinformation on social media, would it be justified?

The hard thing about censorship is that, invevitably, there will be things that are censored that shouldn't be. This can lead to the ethical question of why something needs to be censored and why something doesn't need to be. In my opinion, the main concern is to prevent and censor harmful posts, and while that's not great for the posts that are censored and shouldn't be, a censored 'harmless' post will more often do less harm than an uncesored harmful one.


#### What things can you truly know by yourself, without relying on the trustworthiness of any other people and/or institutions?

Well, these are the things that I have been experienced to or affected by first-hand. For example, if I see gas prices go up in my town, I don't need to read an article about it. Another example is if I were a climatologist, I wouldn't need to check any articles or papers to know that glaciers are melting at an exponential rate, I would know first-hand.

Question to the Speakers
---
With AI evolving at an astronoical rate, how will it change the wy misimformation is spread?

Conclusion
---
Misimformation isn't going anywhere, and it didn't just show up. While censorship will probably not work, nor be the most ethical choice to preventing the spread of misinformation, it is important to know that there are other ways to reduce it. Information is everywhere we go, from our phones in our pockets to the local newspaper, stay vigilant, always question.

Long quote for the Blog
---
"The time scale for evolution, in the external transmission period, is the time scale for accumulation of information. This used to be hundreds, or even thousands, of years. But now this time scale has shrunk to about 50 years, or less. On the other hand, the brains with which we process this information have evolved only on the Darwinian time scale, of hundreds of thousands of years. This is beginning to cause problems. In the 18th century, there was said to be a man who had read every book written. But nowadays, if you read one book a day, it would take you about 15,000 years to read through the books in a national Library. By which time, many more books would have been written." - Stephen Hawking