---
title: "Let's All Lie"
date: 2025-12-11
permalink: /posts/2025/09/blog-post-11/
tags:
  - case study
  - copyright
  - ethics
---

Summary
---
Are conspiracy theories reaching an all new high level of prominence? Why not just censor everything that is wrong? Problem solved. This article talks about the widespread misimformation through media and ways to tackle this problem. Spoiler, it is not censorship. You can find the article [here](https://mit-serc.pubpub.org/pub/lkf63cu5/release/1)

Funny...
---
Imagine having an ex-president banned from a social media site due to his "unhelpful" two cents. Whelp, that happened in 2021 when the Great Big Donald got banned from twitter along with many other people having their posts censored and removed by the government during the Covid epidemic. 

Less Funny...
---
In a more serious matter, misinfomation can be super dangerous. Vaccine misimformation leads to a surge in disease notably around areas considered to be "anti-vac". Another example is climate change and global warming--"large portions of the public doubt it’s even occurring." The article answers the misimformation "crisis" in a new perspective of rather than asking why people are so misimformed, exploring how people can become informed. One issue with finding information is quoted by the author of the article "[Doing my own research] will actually require me to consume other people’s research, as filtered through the explanations of people who have (or claim to have) the expertise required to understand and assess it." Late the author brings up how gathering information is more of a "social proccess" rather than an individual one. 

Below, I answer some of the discussion questions in the article.

Question 1
---
### What strategies can you employ to avoid falling for misinformation online?
One of the best strageties is to learn about and learn to recognize legit and trusting sources. Rather than going to Quora for finding out wether vaccines are safe or not, it might make just a little more sence to go to Centeres for Disease Control and Prevention--a government site. 

Another really good strategy is to use more than one source. Like if you only get your news from The Atlantic, a very left leaning news outlet, try and find more central outlets and maybe jump into a right leaning one as well. 


Question 2
---
### 5. What things can you truly know by yourself, without relying on the trustworthiness of any other people and/or institutions?
Short answer: Not a lot. You might be able to figure out the sun rises every day, but real information without supporting evidence is hard to come by.

Longer-than-the-short-answer answer: As I mentioned earlier in the blog post, gathering information is a social thing. By social, I mean learning off of other peoples' works, of whom learned off of others'. Unless you are a prodigy in creating conjectures, it is really hard to truly know information without basing off of someone else's or others' influence. One can make assumptions on their one, but it's really hard to know if that is really a fact or just a false belief.

Qustion 3
---
### This case study discusses several examples in which misinformation appears to be worse now than it was in the past (e.g., vaccine skepticism and election conspiracies). Can you think of any other examples? How confident are you that this misinformation really is worse now?
Another example now, is misimformation with celebrities. It is so easy now to create a deepfake of a celeb to say something or do something that never actually happened. One time when I was doing internship work for a start-up, I came acrossed a website that was about some random, niche product. And on the website there was about an 8-second video from Kevin O'Leary himself. Only there ws something uncanny about the video. I looked up Kevin O'Leary to see if I could uncover any sort of information about O'Leary wroking for this company, but all my efforts came to no avail.

Question 4
---
### 4. In what ways have digital technologies improved and worsened information flow in the United States? Do you believe these changes are net-positive or net-negative?
With just about everyone in the US having access to social media, there is no doubt that there is more information--good and bad--being spread around (where the demographical age gets younger and younger it seems). Some things are good, such as being able to watch live events and partake in the goverenment without having to leave the home. Other things are not so good, such as being able to make claims about this and that with unsupported or inaccurate evidence, and still change people's belief to the fals claim. When it comes down to whether the new methods of spreading imforation is good or bad, I do believe the good outweighs the bad. Most people want to do good. It is, however, the select few who take advantage of this freedom and push things out to the world with a malicious intent, or a good intent full of naivety.

My Question
---
How do companies who make AI models capable of creating evidence, like deepfakes, to support misimforation react to all of the negative practices done through their models? Do they just say, "Ehh, it's only a few" and move on?

Reflection
---
There has been misimforation and conspiracy theories since the Middle Ages--that's nothing new. What is new, however, is the ways in which misinformation gets spread around to people. From verbal to visual, false claims can be supported with stronger and stronger materialized evidence as the advancements of AI continue. While complete censorship might seem like the best solution, censoring content wouldn't draw trust. The author argues that trust is a keyway into a better informed society. I believe the author is right. 


Quote
---
We are all now connected by the Internet, like neurons in a giant brain. - Stephen Hawking